Well in a previous installment of this series we talked about smoothing or rounding off edges using
the bevelled tool.
Well there's another way to do that of course.
There's always another way to do everything by using one of the modifiers in Blender called the subdivision
surface modifier.
So let's just take a look at this cube here.
If I came over here to the modifiers panel and went to the ADD modifier menu and shows subdivision surface
that modifier would actually try and smooth that object.
And you can increase the subdivisions here in the view.
So if I increase that to two or three you can see that it's beginning to smooth that object.
Now another way of smoothing is to come over here under the Tools tab and use smooth shading.
If I click that we get quite a smooth object there.
Now if I hit the Z key on the keyboard you can see the geometry in there that the modifier is creating.
Now if I hit the tab key to go into edit mode you can see that actually it's still just a cube to make
these changes permanent.
I'd have to click apply on the modifier so I'll bring this subdivisions down in the view here a couple
of levels.
Let's say I want the subdivisions at two.
Now the subdivision here is affecting the entire object.
What if I wanted this edge appear to be a little smoother.
Let me I'm going to click on this guy right here this adjust at it cage and if I click on that you can
see in edit mode here we can now see the smoothing that's happening.
But what if I wanted this top part to be a little tighter in other words instead of it just being a
ball maybe I want it to be like a drum maybe I want this top part to be a little flatter.
Well what I can do is I can press control are to insert an edge loop here and if I click and drag up
you can see that the closer that this edge gets to that top edge the tighter and more sharp that edge
is.
So if I move it up to here let's say and click now I've got something that's beginning to look kind
of like a drum here and notice that down here at the bottom because there isn't an edge to hold this
part down here.
This is still very rounded.
So let's say I wanted to make these edges a little sharper up here when I could do is insert more edge
loops I'll press control r and maybe scroll the mouse wheel wants to create two edges and click.
And now you can see that that edge is getting tighter and tighter up here now not going to insert two
edges over here.
Scroll the mouse wheel and click and now you can see that what we're getting is something that's actually
a little bit more realistic since there isn't really any absolutely sharp edges in the world.
They're oftentimes just a little bit curved.
We're beginning to get more of a realistic edge here.
And when you have an edge like this it's just a little bit curved.
It'll catch the light in your scene and provide a little more interest and a little more realism.
So how can we use this in our modeling.
Well what I'd like to do is go over the process of creating a couple of Lego pieces.
I think this is a great exercise to go through to think about how to get these sharp but slightly rounded
edges on something like a Lego block.
And in addition it introduces the concept of extruding a circular piece out of a square or block object.
And that's a tool or a process that you can use a lot when you're modeling.
So let's take a look at how to do that.
First of all I'll get rid of this object here I'll just select it press the x key and hit delete.
I will also delete the camera and the point light here in the scene.
We don't need those right now as we're modeling so I'll press the x key and click delete.
So the first thing I think I'd like to do is create one of these one tops just this little one singular
piece with the one round extrusion on it and then from this one we can use it as a template to create
all the other pieces.
So to begin with let's start with a polygon plane.
I'm going to come over here to the Create tab choose plain and I'll zoom in.
And what we need here is a little more resolution.
We need more polygons.
What I'd like is four by four on here.
So to do that I'm going to tab into edit mode.
Hitting the tab key and then I'm going to press the W key for the specials menu.
And I'm going to come up here and choose subdivide.
So if I click that it subdivides it into four polygons and if I pull this panel up I can choose the
number of cuts and currently it's at 1.
If I click here to increase it to two I get three by three polygons and if I click this one more time
I get four by four polygons and that's what I want.
Now what I'd like to do is delete the four faces in the center here.
So I'm going to press control tab click face in the mesh select menu here and now I'm just going to
select these four faces.
And hit X and choose delete faces.
All right so now I have a hole in this polygon plane that has one two three four five six seven eight
sides in it.
And what I'd like to do is this is the whole in which I want to extrude a round circular piece.
So what I need is a round piece that has eight sides.
So to do that I'll come back over to my Create tab tab back into object mode.
I'll come over here to the Create tab click on cylinder and for the cylinder I don't need 32 sides I
only need 8.
And in addition I don't want the cap filled to be an end and I don't want it to be an eight sided polygon.
I just want it to be a triangle fan.
So there is my cylinder No.
The interesting thing about this is I only need the top part.
I mean hit the ESC key and scale this down to size here.
And if I hit the tab key now I can select only the parts that I do not need.
So I want to keep this top part.
So all de-selected these with Schiff's select.
And then I'm going to press X and delete faces.
Now I have a circular piece that I can extrude out of this but I need to move it down in line with this
polygon plane so I'll tab out of edit mode.
I will come over here and I want to move this pivot point to the center of this object.
So I go to tools and set origin to geometry and we go.
Now I want to move this object to the center of the grid or to the 3D cursor.
Now I have the 3D cursor already there.
I'm going to press shift S and I can of course move the cursor to the center of the grid here and then
I can press shift s and move the selection to the cursor.
And now it's pop down there in line with the polygon plane.
Now to connect these two pieces up I need to join them together into one object.
There currently a plane and a cylinder.
I'm going to select both of these and press control J.
And that will join them into one object.
Now if I tab back into edit mode I can see that the whole thing now is all one object I'll press control
tab go to vertex mode.
And now what I'd like to do is connect up the polygon plane to the cylinder and I want to connect it
this way so that this round piece stays round.
So I get to select a vertex shift select another one and press Allt him and choose to merge at the last
vertex I selected.
So it's going to move this one to the circular object so wealths like this vertex.
And this one Allt in at last.
It's like these two alt in him at last and I'll just go around and do this.
And lastly allt him and at last.
Now I have a circular object in a square shape.
That's good.
However these are kind of stretched.
I'd like to scale this up so these are more uniform.
So in a press control tab go to face mode press the see key to go to the circle select tool and you
can see here that I've got this round brush type thing and I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel up or
down with the scroll wheel and just click and drag and select those faces to get out of the circle select
tool.
All right click and now I've got these faces selected so I'll just hit the s key and scale up and tell
these polygons are more uniform.
I'm looking for the ones on the corners here to be 90 degree angles.
All right.
Now I have that circular piece ready to be extruded out of that flat plain.
So with these faces selected I'll just press the e key and drag straight up and there we have the top
of our Lego piece now here's where our subdivision surface modifier comes into play.
So I'll come over here to the Add modifiers menu and I'll choose this subdivision surfaces.
And now you can see it's beginning to smooth it all take the view up to Alt-Tab back into object mode
and you can see the polygons here that is beginning to create in the tools tab or click the smooth shading
button and that smooths it out some.
And now over here I'm going to select the adjust edit cage button and I'll tab back into edit mode and
now you can see the cage has been molded to the smooth object.
If I turn this off you can see the unsmooth cage.
What am I to do is go ahead and press control r and create an edge loop right in here and I can move
that up or down.
Maybe I'll move it down to here or create another edge loop right above that to hold this top edge.
There we go.
Now what if I wanted to insert an edge loop right up here so that it would hold this top edge a little
tighter.
If I came up here and press control r and hovered over one of these edges it doesn't give me a preview.
Now if I hover over one of these edges it does or over these edges it does.
But up here it won't.
The reason why it won't do that is because it can only insert edges through quads or through four sided
polygons it can't insert edges through tries three sided polygons or in guns any polygons that have
more than four sides.
So what we need to do is figure out a way to insert an edge loop without actually inserting an edge
loop.
And the easiest way to do that I think is just to extrude these faces and then scale them in a bit.
So if I control tab here to bring up the mesh select menu and choose face I'll then hit the C key circle
select these.
Now if I hit extrude and click I can scale this in or out and you can see I've created essentially a
new Angelou pier that I can adjust in and out.
So if I put this right about here you can see I have some control now over how tight that edge is.
So I can go to control tab choose edges to choose this edge all the way around I'll press Alt click
and now I can move this edge up and down and just how tight that corner needs to be.
So let's say I wanted to be about like that.
All right.
So there is the top of our Lego piece.
Now we can look at our object without the subdivisions enabled here by just clicking this little eye.
The display modifier in viewport button I'll just click that and you can see it's gone back to the unsmooth
view.
So now I'm going to call this in the outline or I'll change the name and I'll call this template and
this is going to be the template that we'll use for every subsequent Lego block.